1. Keep track and make a list of how rarely your negative expectations actually come true. It's surprising how often things turn out better than we anticipate!

2. Take a moment to notice and list how frequently you catch yourself having negative or pessimistic thoughts. Consider asking a trusted friend or your spouse for their input too. Then, make an effort to look at your life objectively and recognize all the positives that exist.

3. Pay attention to how your mood changes as you stop exaggerating the negatives and start focusing on the positives. You'll be amazed at the impact this shift can have on how you feel.

4. If you've had a negative experience in the past that was within your control, take some time to brainstorm solutions and figure out how to prevent it from happening again. You have the power to make positive changes.

5. Even if you've faced uncontrollable negative events in the past, remind yourself that there's no basis for pessimism about future events. Don't let the past dictate your outlook on what's to come.

6. Challenge the notion that it's okay to assume a pessimistic perspective about future events just to avoid disappointment. Understand that worrying about something going wrong won't necessarily make you feel better if it does happen. Similarly, if you expect something to go right and it doesn't, it won't make you feel significantly worse.

7. Take note that whatever benefits you think you gain from anticipating negative outcomes don't outweigh the toll of living with chronic worry and tension day in and day out. It's not worth it.

8. Make a list of the advantages and disadvantages of assuming the worst. Then, try experimenting with both perspectives and observe how each one affects your mood. You might be surprised by the results.

9. Imagine having a dialogue between your negative, pessimistic side and your positive, optimistic side. Take note of the benefits that come from adopting a more positive stance toward life.

10. Pay attention to your behaviors and see if you engage in unnecessary actions to prevent mistakes. Try decreasing those behaviors and notice how it positively impacts your overall well-being.

11. Challenge yourself to refrain from complaining. Enlist the help of a friend or your trusted spouse to call you out if you slip up. It's amazing how much better life can be when we focus on the positive instead of dwelling on the negative.

12. Instead of complaining, try directly asking for what you need. Reflect on whether complaining is just an indirect way of trying to get your needs met. There might be more effective ways to communicate and achieve what you want.

13. Make time for activities that are purely for fun. As you engage in these enjoyable experiences, remind yourself that life isn't just about avoiding "bad things," but also about seeking out and embracing the "good things."
